Okay, here's a fun one.
I don't have a benchmark to show you but I
think it's fun to talk about for a second.
And that is,
why in the world is- x slower than 0- x?
Anybody who wants to take a crack at this,
I think this is a pretty fun one.
>> Is-
>> Go ahead.
>> Is- x a multiplication?
>> No.
>> No, okay.
>> That was a good one.
>> Does it have to do with coercion?
>> Sort of, yes.
Yes, you're on track.
So, you were talking about
two's complement, right?
Negative numbers.
>> No, I was thinking that,
is it more steps in the assembly
code to change it from positive?
>> No, not even that.
Not even that.
There is no such thing as- 0.
Well, actually, let's do a sane thing.
There's no such thing as- 0,
there's only 0.
Except, JavaScript is not sane.
>> [LAUGH]
>> JavaScript understands 0, and
it also understands- 0.
It's just wrote- 0, right?
This is insane, 0- 0?
0, but- 0, -0.
Okay, what in the world's going on here,
right?
To understand this is there is no way for
the CPU to encode- 0.
Negative 0 doesn't exist because
two's complement of zero,
remember two's complement
is you flip all the bits.
So you get one, one, one everywhere,
and then you add one to it.
And when you add one to one, one,
one everywhere, it overflows and
becomes zero again.
So negation of a zero, or
two's complement of zero is zero, right?
And that's fine,
because in math there's no such thing
as- 0 unless you do limits, right?
And so in JavaScript is different.
And so for some reason, it encodes- 0.
Now, if you write this thing, 0- x,
then what you're saying is
subtract the value from 0.
If you say this,
then you're actually saying,
give me the negative of this number,
which for the most part is a number,
except when it's 0, then it's- 0,
which cannot be encoded into as a integer.
So what does JavaScript do?
It encodes us as eee754.
eee754 is how we do
floating point numbers.
Turns out floating point
numbers can have- 0.
So in floating point numbers,
we actually store the negation
right here in the corner like- 1.
What do I do?
Right here on the first bit,
if you start as- 1.
So this bit that defines the sign,
positive or negative,
then we have the exponent and
mantissa which is basically
the value minus the exponent, right?
So for 0 you can actually
encode- 0 in triple notation and
this is why a negative x if x is 0
becomes a floating point number, right?
And so the problem is if you do 0- x for,
if input is 1 then you get- 1,
if the input is 0 you get 0,
but if you get- x and if you start with 1,
then you get with- 1.
But if you start with 0,
then you get a float.
And you can see how that would ruin
the day for the compiler, right?
Because compiler makes an assumption that
the number it's getting is going to be
an integer.
And so now, all of a sudden,
that assumption is broken.
And so the way you ruin your
day is if you try to go and
access a property using a integer.
This is easy, that's easy.
Remember, eex instruction and
the xx index, there you go,
there's your memory, piece of cake.
You put a- 0, it's a float,
I can't use floats to access the thing.
As a matter of fact,
I don't know how it is NUMA registers but
the old CPUs had dedicated registers for
floating point numbers.
They were separate beasts.
If you wanted to deal with floating point
numbers, totally different registers,
totally different operations you
could do on them, et cetera.
The arithmetic logic unit for adding and
subtracting or multiplying floating
points is way different than doing it for
regular integers, right?
So, the amusing part here
is that through a negation,
you can end up with a negative
floating point number.
If you try to use it in array access or
property access,
will really mess up the generated
code that the compiler has to do.
And the result of that is this,
that Chrome has been actually pretty good,
it's only 3x, it's not too bad.
It used to be way worse in the past.
And then Firefox looks like didn't
optimize this very well, and so
in Firefox is 10x, kind of a difference.
Kind of crazy?
All these different ways to
shoot ourselves in the foot,
because JavaScript is dynamic, right?
If it'd be statically compiled,
then this wouldn't happen because
you couldn't do this, right?
You would not be allowed to just
randomly do these kinds of things.